So one of the things that you would do in
a web server is read parameters off of
the URL.
These can be query string parameters, or
they can be parameters passed
on the body of the request.
So what we wanna do is look at how we
can do both of those things with this
simple web server.
So, let's modify this app so
that we actually pass in the name
that we wanna say hello to.
So up here in our URL, what we wanna
do is just say pass in the name.
And then, just say if it was Burke,
then we would want it to say,
Hello Burke instead of Hello World,
or what have you.
So in order to pull this off,
we need to read the query
string parameter.
So, how do we do that?
Well, this is one of these places
where we're gonna use the debugger to
figure out how we can do that.
So, let's get out of this.
And what we wanna do is I'm just
gonna put a break point here, so
we can take a look at
the incoming request.
So let's go back and create a launch
file with Deno, if you remember, Deno.
All right, I'm gonna get that
right before the end of the day.
And we're gonna point it at exercise,
and then app.ts.
All right, so let's go ahead and
run this now.
Make sure our break point is there,
yep, so let's launch.
And it's gonna go ahead and
break on the first line.
If you don't want it to
break on the first line,
you can change this inspect, right here.
In the launch.json, you can change
inspect BRK to just inspect, and
then it won't do that, it won't break
on the first line in the program.
And then you can see
your parsing allow-all.
Okay, so it's running now,
let's go ahead and come back over here.
Let's collapse this,
get all this noise out of the way.
And let's refresh the browser.
Our program, and it should break, does.
Let's just take a look at the req object
and see what we're working with here.
So here's our req object.
The IntelliSense is quite large cuz
we've got the font size cranked up.
But what can we work with here?
Nothing on the body, nothing new.
It's a get method, okay, right here.
Okay, so
it looks like we're getting the URL.
It's giving us the whole
path after the address.
So we could probably use this
to parse out the query string.
So, how do we do this?
Well, remember I told you
that Deno wants to stay
as close to browser concepts as possible.
And because of that, we can use
something called URL search params,
which is a browser API
inside of Deno to do this.
So what we can do here is we can say
const params = new URL search params.
And you see that it's
there in the autocomplete,
because VS Code knows about this API,
it's a browser API.
So it's available for us to use here.
And then what URL search params
is gonna want is the string that
it's gonna use to parse out the params.
So what URL search params does is it just
gives us an API for interacting with,
parsing out these URL parameters and
interacting with them.
Now, I should note that when I was
testing this, for some reason,
URL search params cannot
handle this slash right here.
It doesn't know what to do with this
slash, and that slash is gonna be there,
no matter what, and so
we actually have to pull it off.
So the easiest way to do that
is to just do a substring.
And then we're just gonna pull off the
first character and if we omit the second
argument to substring, that's just
gonna give us the rest of the string.
So what we're saying here basically is,
start at the second character
of the string, and give us from
that character on to the variant.
And then what we can
do here is we can say,
the name const name = params.get, right?
And that when looking for
the name parameter.
And then, down here in our,
stead of returning this,
what we can do instead is return and
then watch the magic, there it is.
We're into name instead.
But we might wanna do name or,
in case it's not passed in because
otherwise we'll just get undefined.
Okay, so just to recap what we just did,
we figured out that the URL
on req has the path.
We're gonna use the URL
search params method,
which is a browser API, to parse it.
And then once we parse it,
we can just look for the name parameter.
And then we'll return that in HTML.
So let's go ahead and start our
server again, I think this was it.
No, this was it.
Running, all right, I misspelled running.
All right, so let's stop this cuz we,
all right so it says, Hello Burke.
All right, perfect.
So let's change this, Hello Luis.
All right, it's working,
look at that, very nice.
Okay, so we've successfully
been able to parse a query
string in a simple Deno
server using URLSearchParams.
Now what I want you to get from that is
that you can use that browser API inside
of your Deno applications
to solve problems.
So you might ordinarily go to NPM
to try to solve that problem,
to try to parse that query string,
but you don't need to do that.
You can just use that API.